Abundance in the fertile soils quickly came, man and cattle proliferated.By the success of the Second Region the leaders were encouraged; the Third Region to establish they proceeded.To make it a domain of Inanna, as she was promised, they decreed.As befits the mistress of a region, a celestial constellation to her was assigned:Beforehand with her brother Utu the Station of the Twins she shared,Henceforth, as a gift from Ninharsag, her Constellation of the Maiden to Inanna was allotted;In the eight hundred and sixtieth year, according to the Earth year count, was Inanna so honored.Far away in the eastern lands, beyond seven mountain ranges, was the Third Region; Zamush, Land of Sixty Precious Stones, was its highland realm called.Aratta, the Wooded Realm, was in the valley of a meandering great river located;In the great plain did the people cultivate crops of grains and horned cattle herd. There too two cities with mud bricks they built, with granaries they were filled.As by Enlil's decree required, the Lord Enki, Lord of Wisdom,For the Third Region a changed tongue devised, a new kind of writing signs he for it fashioned, A tongue of man heretofore unknown, for Aratta Enki in his wisdom created;But the ME's of civilized kingdoms for the Third Region Enki did not give:Let Inanna what for Unug-ki had obtained with the new region share! So did Enki declare.In Aratta Inanna a shepherd-chief appointed, akin to her beloved Dumuzi he was.In her skyship from Unug-ki to Aratta Inanna journeyed, over mountains and valleys she flew. The precious stones of Zamush she cherished, pure lapis lazuli with her to Unug-ki she carried. At that time the king in Unug-ki was Enmerkar, the second one to reign therein he was;It was he who the boundaries of Unug-ki expanded, by its glories was Inanna exalted.It was he who the wealth of Aratta coveted, to be over Aratta supreme he schemed.To Aratta Enmerkar an emissary dispatched as a tribute Aratta's riches to demand.216

