To Ningishzidda the Anunnaki leaders appealed, how to the people the skies to observe to teach.In his wisdom stone structures Ningishzidda devised, Ninurta and Ishkur to erect them helped.In the settled lands, near and far, the people how the skies to observe they taught,That the sun in the Constellation of the Bull was still rising to the people they showed.With sorrow did Enki these ongoings watch, how Fate the rightful order twisted he pondered:After the Anunnaki as gods themselves declared, on Mankind's support they instead are dependent!In the First Region to unify the lands under one leader the Anunnaki decided, a warrior king they desired.To Inanna, of Marduk the adversary, the task of the right man to find they entrusted.A strong man whom on her journeys she had met and loved, Inanna to Enlil indicated,Arbakad, of four garrisons the commander, was his father, a high priestess his mother was.Scepter and crown Enlil him gave, Sharru-kin, Righteous Regent, Enlil him appointed.As on Nibiru once was done, a new crown city, the lands to unify, was established,Agade, the Unified City, they named it, not far from Kishi it was located.By Enlil was Sharru-kin empowered; Inanna with her weapons of brilliance his warriors accompanied.All the lands from the Lower Sea to the Upper Sea to his throne obedience gave, At the borders of the Fourth Region, to protect it, his troops were stationed.With a cautious eye Ra on Inanna and Sharru-kin constantly gazed, then as a falcon on his prey he pounced:From the place where Marduk the tower to heaven reaching to build had attempted,Sacred soil from there to Agade did Sharru-kin move, therein the Heavenly Bright Object to implant.Enraged did Marduk to the First Region rush, with Nabu and followers to the tower's place they came.Of the sacred soil, I alone the possessor am, by me shall a gateway of the gods be established! So did Marduk vehemently announce, instructions the river to divert to his followers he gave.Dikes and walls in the Place of the Tower they raised, the Esagil, House for the Utmost God, for Marduk they built;225

