rulers and their 432,000 years' total reign to which Berossus had referred. Known as the Sumerian King Lists (and on display in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, England), their several versions leave no doubt that their Sumerian compilers had access to some earlier common or canonized textual material. Coupled with other equally early texts, discovered in various states of preservation, they strongly suggest that the original recorder of the Arrival, as well as of preceding events and certainly of following events, had to be one of those leaders, a key participant, an eyewitness.One who had been an eyewitness to all those events, indeed a key participant in them, was the leader who had splashed down with the first group of astronauts. At that time his epithet-name was E.A., "He Whose Home Is Water." He experienced the disappointment of having command of Earth Mission given to his half brother and rival EN.LIL ("Lord of the Command"), a humiliation little mitigated by granting him the title EN.K1, "Lord of Earth." Relegated away from the cities of the gods and their spaceport in the E.DIN ("Eden") to supervise the mining of gold in the AB.ZU (southeastern Africa), it was Ea/Enki-a great scientist-who came across the hominids who inhabited those parts. And so when the Anunnaki toiling in the gold mines mutinied and said, "No more!" it was he who realized that the needed manpower could be obtained by jumping the gun on evolution through genetic engineering; and thus did the Adam (literally, "He of the Earth," Earthling) come into being.As a hybrid, the Adam could not procreate; the events echoed in the biblical tale of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden record the second genetic manipulation by Enki that added the extra chromosomal genes needed for sexual procreation.And when Mankind, proliferating, did not turn out the way it had been envisaged, it was he, Enki, who defied his brother Enlil's plan to let Mankind perish in the Deluge-the events whose hero has been called Noah in the Bible and Ziusudra in the earlier original Sumerian text.The firstborn son of Anu, Nibiru's ruler, Ea/Enki was well versed in his planet's (Nibiru) and its inhabitants' past. An accomplished scientist, he bequeathed the most important aspects of the advanced knowledge of the Anunnaki especially to his two sons Marduk and Ningishzidda (who, as Egyptian gods, were known there as Ra and Thoth, respectively). But he also was instrumental in sharing with Mankind certain aspects of such advanced knowledge, by teaching to selected individuals the "secrets of the gods." In at least two instances, such initiates wrote down (as they were instructed to do) those divine teachings as Mankind's heritage. One, called Adapa and probably a son of Enki by a human female, is known to have written a book titled Writings Regarding Time-one of the earliest lost books. The other, called Enmeduranki, was in all probability the prototype of the biblical Enoch, the one who was taken up to heaven after he had entrusted to his sons the book of divine secrets, and of which a version has possibly survived in the extrabiblical Book of Enoch.Though the firstborn of Anu, he was not destined to be his father's successor on the throne of Nibiru. Complex rules of succession, which reflected the convoluted history of the Nibiruans, gave that privilege to Enki's half brother Enlil. In the effort to resolve the bitter conflict, both Enki and Enlil ended up on a mission to an alien planet-Earth-whose gold was needed to create a shield for preserving Nibiru's dwindling atmosphere. It was against that background, made even more complex by the presence on Earth of their half sister Ninharsag (the Chief Medical Officer of the Anunnaki), that Enki decided to defy Enlil's plan to have Mankind perish in the Deluge.The conflict carried on between the two half brothers' sons, even among their grandchildren; the fact4

