that all of them, and especially those born on Earth, faced the loss of longevity that Nibiru's extended orbital period provided added personal agonies and sharpened ambitions. It all came to a climax in the last century of the third millennium B.C. when Marduk, Enki's firstborn by his official spouse, claimed that he and not Enlil's firstborn son, Ninurta, should inherit the Earth. The bitter conflict that included a series of wars led in the end to the use of nuclear weapons; the ensuing though unintended result was the demise of the Sumerian civilization.The initiation of chosen individuals into the "secrets of the gods" had marked the beginning of Priesthood, the lineages of mediators between the gods and the people, the transmitters of the Divine Words to the mortal Earthlings. Oracles-interpretations of divine utterances were commingled with the observation of the heavens for omens.And as Mankind was increasingly drawn to take sides in the godly conflicts, Prophecy began to play a role. Indeed, the term to denote such spokesmen of the gods who proclaimed what was to come, Nabih, was the epithet for Marduk's firstborn son, Nabu, who had tried, on behalf of his exiled father, to convince Mankind that the heavenly signs bespoke the coming supremacy of Marduk.These developments sharpened the realization that one must distinguish between Fate and Destiny. The proclamations of Enlil, sometimes even of Anu, that used to be unquestioned were now subjected to the scrutiny of the difference between NAM-a Destiny, like the planetary orbits, whose course had been determined and was unchangeable-and NAM.TAR, literally, a destiny that could be bent, broken, changedwhich was Fate. Reviewing and recalling the sequence of events, and the apparent parallelism between what had happened on Nibiru and what took place on Earth, Enki and Enlil began to ponder philosophically what indeed was destined and could not have been avoided, and what was just fated as a consequence of right or wrong decisions and free choice. The latter could not be predicted; the former could be foreseen-especially if all, as the planetary orbits, was cyclical; if what was shall again be, if the First Things shall also be the Last Things.The climactic event of the nuclear desolation sharpened soul-searching among the leaders of the Anunnaki and raised the need to explain to the devastated human masses why it came to pass this way. Was it destined or was it just the result of an Anunnaki-made fate? Was anyone responsible, is there someone accountable?In the Councils of the Anunnaki on the eve of the calamity, it was Enki who stood alone in opposition to the use of the forbidden weapon. It was thus important for Enki to explain to the suffering remnants hot, that turning point in the saga of extraterrestrials who had meant well but ended as destroyers had come to pass. And who but Ea/Enki, who was the first to come and an eyewitness to it all, was most qualified to tell the Pas, so that the Future could be divined? And the best way to tell it all was as a first-person report by Enki himself.That he had recorded his autobiography is certain, for a long text (stretching over at least twelve tablets) discovered in the libraryNippur quotes Erki as sayingWhen I approached Earth, there was much flooding.5

